What is React Native, really?
So if you look at your phone,
your phone is really just a small but
incredibly powerful computer.
You might have heard this analogy already,
but the average smartphone we
have nowadays is a million
times more powerful than
the Guidance Computer that sent humans
on the moon, and that is pretty crazy.
But due to their smaller screen and touch
base interface, browsing the web on your
smartphone is still sub optimal compared
to a desktop or a laptop experience.
Is the fact that I looked up.
The number of smartphone users
in the world is 3.5 billion,
which is more than was half the world.
And by looking at the global market share,
we find that Android and
iOS are clearly in the lead, together they
make up like 99% of smartphone users.
And you might be surprised
to find out because
a lot of you might have iPhones and
might know only people who have iPhones.
You might be surprised to learn
that Android is actually way ahead
in terms of market share.
And it depends on the country.
So if you're from the US more than
half the people will have iPhones.
Same for the UK, I think.
But, for example in India, only, like
two or 3% of the users have smartphones.
So really the platform that you
focus on should really depend on who
you're building application for.
So if you are, if you know that your
target audience will be iPhone users,
you can get away with
mostly focusing on iPhone.
But regardless of who your users are.
If you target both Android and iOS,
you can be pretty confident that 99%
of users will be able to use your app.
Now, because phones are just tiny
computers, they have an operating system.
And some examples of computers are a
MacBook or Adele, or Lenovo, and some
examples of operating systems for these
computers, are MacOS, Windows or Linux.
Now to go into the phone world,
some examples of phones are iPhone, or
Samsung Galaxy, or
Nexus, and some examples of phone
operating systems, iOS and Android.
Now applications are designed to run
on a particular operating system, so
you can't just take an iOS app and
run it on Android and vice versa.
There's no way you can'have
a Windows app to run on Mac.
So in order to get to this dream
of targeting 99% of our users,
we'll have to build two apps,
one for Android and one for iOS.
So this is what historically
has been the case.
You have to have two development teams or
two people, or
just one person that knows
these two environments,
because iOS applications are written
in Objective C or Swift.
And Android applications
are written in Java or Kotlin.
Now, you can imagine the difficulty in
this because it's expensive, it's tedious,
it's difficult to track features across
two completely different code sets.
And yeah, loads of people were having
this problem and so was Facebook, and
they decided to have a go at solving it.
And this is where
React Native comes to play.
The goal for
React Native was to build a solution that
allows you to create fully native apps,
not progressive web apps or web views.
How one code base,
one development team, one language,
and most importantly fully extensible.
React Native isn't actually the first or
the only such library
that aims to do these.
But it is incredibly powerful and
arguably the best.
I mean, obviously, I think it's the best.
But this is because, A,
we're building fully native apps.
So the compiled React Native application
is indistinguishable from
a real native application.
And secondly,
because it's fully extensible, a little
existing libraries basically give you
this toolbox of things that you can do.
But if you want to do anything outside of
this, your lost, whereas in React Native,
you'll always have the ability
to go into the native code and
add anything that React Native
doesn't already support.
Furthermore, it is open source,
you can always help out with adding any
features that you think would be awesome.
And how does it work?
All right, we're not gonna
go crazy technical on this.
But basically,
React Native is built in such a way
that it targets the existing compilers.
So there are compilers that accept Java or
Kotlin and target the Android platform.
And there are compilers that
accept Objective C or Swift and
target the i OS platform.
And this is exactly what
React Native hooks into.
And the reason this is powerful is because
these compilers are already built to
handle this.
And it also makes React Native fully
extensible to other platforms.
So you can have React Native Windows,
React Native web, React Native VR,
like you could just add more and
more compilers here and you can still
have this one React Native code.
Yes.
>> Just curious in your experience,
work with native apps,
just through reading like.
I read like two different
fronts where they say,
you can use solutions like React Native,
but there will be a point or
a pain point where you're gonna wanna
do certain features that native
wants to do on their application that
React Native might not support it.
And then you have to rely on a Swift
solutions for iOS, or Java and
Kotlin for Android.
I'm just wondering,
at this day and age like 2020,
the maturity of the React Native API and
if you have
faced situations where you saw, I cannot
take this further just with React Native,
where you needed a native
solution from those languages.
>> Yes.
So
I have had a couple of occasions where
I've had to build something native.
And once one was for,
I think, for Android for
linking into a particular mail provider
and the other is on my current project,
which was actually pre-built before
my time, which is integrating with
a payment provider that isn't
available in React Native.
And so the platform fully supports it,
this is one of the features
of React Native.
It's quite straightforward,
I'm gonna say very straightforward,
it's quite straightforward to
bridge into the native code.
So if you have, for example,
if you need to add a new module or
add a new component, or add some native
functionality that interacts with
the native Java or Kotlin,
or Objective C code, there's
a particular entry point and there's
really good guides on how to do it.
So, it is for the extensible.
It is a bit of like a hustle, like I
always like to say that I had written no
Objective C code prior to
going to React Native, but
now I write a security library.
So, they kind of lure you in with
the promises of just Java Script, and
then you kind of start going like,
I'll just do this little bit in Java.
So, you do actually get to
like learn this new languages.
Yeah, so to answer your question,
it's a bit of a hassle
in that we try to stay in the React Native
space as much as possible.
But if we have to go outside of it, it's
not very hard to customize it infinitely.
Yes.
>> Is there a category of, or can you sort
of categorize which apps you might
wanna stay away from with React Native?
Like maybe highly graphical intensive or
is that works on React Native?
>> So, not at all,
you can build anything with React Native.
So even though it's JavaScript,
we actually hook into the native
components for each platform.
So, whereas maybe two years ago,
there was a performance hit for
certain really memory
intensive applications.
As we progress,
the birth of navigation libraries and
React Native itself,
have gone more and more performance.
You might have heard of Hermes.
It's like a new JavaScript compiler that
they are building at Facebook currently,
which is optimized for
JavaScript in React Native.
It's really interesting talk at
React Native EU, which is about Hermes.
And that's just an example, or
one example of the optimizations
that they're doing for React Native.
So yeah, I don't think there's anything
you should really stay away from.